Title: Field Report: DIYnamics in the New York City Scientist-in-Residence Program
Date: 2022-05-19
Category: Field Reports
Tags: Field report, lego, K-12
Slug: isabelle-2022
Authors: Isabelle Bunge
Summary: Isabelle Bunge, Ph.D. student at Columbia University, shares how she used the DIYnamics lego table to teach fundamentals of atmospheric and oceanic flows to middle schoolers in the Scientist-In-Residence program at a New York City USD middle school.
---

_[Note from Spencer: This post is part of our ongoing [Field
Reports]({category}Field Reports) series, where DIYnamics users across
the world share how they've used the DIYnamics kit and materials in
local communities.]_

I've had the wonderful opportunity of participating in the
Scientist-in-Residence Program for the 2021-2022 academic year.  This
was for a general STEM enrichment class at [75
Morton](https://www.75morton.org/) (aka MS 297). The lesson took place
on October 26, 2021. Under the program, I have designed a series of
lectures and demonstrations for two middle school classes (7th and 8th
grades) centered around atmospheric science and fluid dynamics. For
the introductory lesson, we started with the dynamics of fluids in
rotating planes in order to understand how our atmospheres and oceans
respond to the Earth's rotation. At the middle school level, a lecture
on fluid dynamics is greatly aided with the use of a physical
demonstration that the children can use to grasp the theoretical ideas
proposed to them. We employed a rotating tank provided by DIYnamics to
give the kids a physical understanding of how fluids move in a
rotating plane.

Using the guidelines set by DIYnamics, we gave the kids a few
different situations (i.e. stationary fluid versus a rotating fluid)
and had them hypothesize how they believed our trackers (in this case
food coloring) would act in each situation. Giving the kids a bit of
agency, we had volunteers come up and set the trackers in the
fluids. Then, using a classroom projector, we projected the
birds-eye-view of the tank so that the class could easily see the
motion of the tracker element, and as a group we made observations
about the path of the food coloring. We eventually added horizontal
gradients into the mixture (using either a stirring stick or a
simulated temperature gradient) to give the kids a way to visualize
eddies and understand their source.  Overall, the kids loved having the
practical demonstration as the starting lesson for our SIR series and
they built up a lot of intuition into basic fluid dynamic principles.
